The Oracle Ping utility is requires the Oracle Client (Instant or Full). it can
run or deployed anywhere, so long as the OCI library is available. it is
recommended that you copy the distribution to your PATH so that it can be used
from anywhere, rather than only a specific location.

Linux
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For Linux, ensure that you have at least the Oracle Instant Client installed,
and that the ORACLE_HOME environment variable is set. You may also want to set
the TNS_ADMIN environment variable. It is also recommended that you create a 
symbolic link named tnsping which points to the oraping image (assuming tnsping
is not already installed).

Also, you will want to copy the ldapus.msg file to the $ORACLE_HOME/ldap/mesg
directory in case you want LDAP resolution of the TNS names/descriptions.

A typical install looks something like the following (assuming Instant Client
is being used), example ...

    ORACLE_BASE=/usr/lib64/oracle/11.2.0.3
    ORACLE_HOME=$ORACLE_BASE/client
    TNS_ADMIN=$ORACLE_BASE/tns

The runtime files are located in the /usr/bin directory, example ...

    /usr/bin/oraping
    /usr/bin/sqlplus
    /usr/bin/tnsping -> oraping

The PATH environment, should include the $ORACLE_HOME or $ORACLE_HOME/bin,
depending on your release, example ...

    PATH=$PATH:$ORACLE_HOME:/usr/bin:$PATH

if you plan on building the Oracle ping utility from source, you should also
have the LD_LIBRARY_PATH set as well, example ...

    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib64:$ORACLE_HOME/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH

Windows
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For Windows, ensure that you have at least the Oracle Instant Client installed,
and that the ORACLE_HOME environment variable is set. You may also want to set
the TNS_ADMIN environment variable. It is also recommended that you use also
deploy the TNSPING.BAT file alongside the ORAPING.EXE (assuming TNSPING.EXE is
not already installed).

Also, you will want to copy the ldapus.msg file to the %ORACLE_HOME%\ldap\mesg
directory in case you want LDAP resolution of the TNS names/descriptions.

A typical install looks something like the following (assuming Instant Client
is being used), example ...

    ORACLE_BASE=c:\oracle\11.2.0.3
    ORACLE_HOME=%ORACLE_BASE%\client
    TNS_ADMIN=%ORACLE_BASE%\tns

The runtime files are located in the %ORACLE_HOME% directory, example ...

    %ORACLE_HOME%\oraping.exe
    %ORACLE_HOME%\sqlplus.exe
    %ORACLE_HOME%\tnsping.bat

The PATH environment, should include the %ORACLE_HOME% or %ORACLE_HOME%\bin,
depending on your release, example ... 

    PATH=%PATH%;%ORACLE_HOME%;

Build
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You can of course build from the source, using the Make file provided or one of
the IDE projects provided. Aside from make, a Code::Blocks 13.12 project for
Linux and a Visual Studio 2010 Project and Solution for Windows.

To build, use the make utility, example ...

    make clean && make all

